A common way to distribute a program (as opposed to a library) is a compressed archive of binary files.

In C#, `dotnet publish` can produce output that looks like:

```
 Directory of C:\package-cs\bin\Release\net7.0\publish

11/19/2023  04:40 PM    <DIR>          .
11/19/2023  03:59 PM    <DIR>          ..
11/19/2023  01:38 PM               422 package-cs.deps.json
11/19/2023  03:59 PM             9,728 package-cs.dll
11/19/2023  03:59 PM           154,624 package-cs.exe
11/19/2023  03:59 PM            11,564 package-cs.pdb
11/19/2023  01:38 PM               253 package-cs.runtimeconfig.json
               5 File(s)        176,591 bytes
```

The above is the simplest case; in general, many programs use various libraries that will also be included as DLLs in the `publish` directory. The `.exe` is the program directly run by the user, but it needs to be accompanied by the other files.

`package-cs` runs `dotnet publish` and makes archives containing all the files in the `publish` directory. If the input is a project file like `foo.csproj`, the output is a pair of archives:

```
bin/foo-1.0.tar.gz
bin/foo-1.0.zip
```

Assembly version is read from `foo.csproj`, defaults to `1.0`.

Along with a copy of the program, the user also needs a convenient way to run it. Single-file executables can be copied into a directory in your PATH, but doing the same thing with a many-file program like those generated by C#, would be at best messy, and at worst disastrous; multiple programs installed that way, would be liable to overwrite each other's DLLs with incompatible versions (a phenomenon traditionally called "DLL hell").

Another option is to add a PATH entry for the new program. This works, but requires manual steps, leads to an awkwardly long PATH, and on Linux, still requires the program to be run as `foo.exe` where one would prefer to just type `foo`.

`package-cs` provides a third option, by generating scripts, that can be placed in existing PATH. The `.tar.gz` archive contains a shell script that looks like:

```
#!/bin/sh
# This file can provide a convenient command to run package-cs
# To use it as such,
# change it to point to where you put your copy of package-cs
# and put it in a directory in your PATH
/usr/local/bin/package-cs-1.0/package-cs.exe "$@"
```

And the `.zip` contains a batch file that looks like:

```
@echo off
rem This file can provide a convenient command to run package-cs
rem To use it as such,
rem change it to point to where you put your copy of package-cs
rem and put it in a directory in your PATH
C:\package-cs-1.0\package-cs.exe %*
```
